---
layout: article
title: Install Perf Tool in Linux 
key: 20190118
tags:
- Linux
- Tool
mathjax: true
---

Perf is a profiler tool for Linux based system which can be used to measure system performance. Our recent project requires the usuage of this tool. Mainly installed on regular Linux server and embedded system.

<!--more-->

## How to install 
Examples: 

* system 1: Ubuntu 16.04.5 LTS (GNU/Linux 4.4.0-131-generic x86_64)
* system 2: Ubuntu 16.04.2 LTS (4.4.77)

#### check kernel version
`$uname -r` (return: *4.4.0-131-generic* in system 1)
 (or return: *4.4.77* in system 2)
 
You can also check if perf has been installed in your system by:

#### check perf version
`$perf --version` 

If you have right one, you will see the version of perf

or by `$cd /usr/lib`

check if you have 'linux-tools' dir. If so, you can `$cd linux-tools` to see the perf tool dir like '4.4.0-131-generic'.  These two ways can be used to check after you install the perf tool.

#### Install perf tool

If you don't have perf on the system, easiest way you can do is:

`$sudo apt-get update`

``$sudo apt-get install linux-tools-common linux-tools-generic linux-tools-`uname -r` ``

or `$sudo apt-get install linux-tools-common linux-tools-generic`

If you kernel version and linux-tool-generic version are same, you may be done here. However, most of time, the current update version may not be the same as what required. When you check `$perf --version`, you may get *WARNING: perf not found for kernel and you may need to install the following packages for this specific kernel: ...* ,which the right version required.

You can check if you have the right version as warning list by:

`$sudo apt-cache search linux-tools`

If not, you can go to search the packages required online, like what I needed for my system is the package *linux-tools-4.4.0-131-generic*, which I found [here](https://packages.ubuntu.com/en/trusty-updates/linux-tools-4.4.0-131-generic), select your architecture type and followed the instruction. You may need to add new mirror site which contained the package required to your apt source list.

`$cd /etc/apt/`

`$vi sources.list` (add `sudo` if permission denied)

in sources.list add one line: `deb mirrors.kernel.org/ubuntu trusty-updates main `

After you update the sources list and you can install the pacakage.

`$sudo apt-get install linux-tools-4.4.0-131-generic`

Then you can check the perf version `perf --version` and you can see the perf tool version without asking to install pacakge and you are all set. You can use your pert tool now. 

Wait, that is not the end. If returning result of `$uname -r` is like this `4.4.77`, the previous way may not work. If you do `$sudo apt-get install linux-tools-4.4.77` but cannot get the tool installed. In this case, download the required linux kernel version (our case is v4.4.77) and go to 'linux->tools->perf' to install it.

`$git clone git://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/stable/linux-stable.git`

After download finished, 

`$cd linux-stable/`

`$git checkout v4.4.77` (you can also check your git status `git status`)

`$cd tools/perf/`

`$make`  (If error came and asked for installation of 'flex' and 'bison', `$sudo apt-get install flex` and `$sudo apt-get install bison`)

`$sudo cp perf /usr/bin` 

After doing this, you can try `$perf --version` and hope it works for you now.

After `make`, you can also try `make install` and then check the `perf --version`.

## Basic usuage of perf tool

example:

`$perf stat -e cache-misses ./test` (./test is your executable file) -cache miss

`$perf record -e cache-misses ./test` 

`$perf report`

when run `perf record -e cache-misses ./test`, you may come with error or warning like this and cannot get perf report:

WARNING: Kernel address maps (/proc/{kallsyms,modules}) are restricted,
check /proc/sys/kernel/kptr_restrict.

You can check the kptr_restrict value is 1 and it is read-only file, what you can do is like this:

`echo 0 | sudo tee /proc/sys/kernel/kptr_restrict`

You can check the value in kptr_restrict has been changed from 1 to 0. 

Now you can run `$perf record -e cache-misses ./test` and get the perf report then.

More tutorials about perf tool can be found on [perf wiki](https://perf.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Tutorial#Sample_analysis_with_perf_report)

You may also check another useful tool about perf: https://github.com/brendangregg/perf-tools


##### [References]
1. https://perf.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Tutorial#Sample_analysis_with_perf_report
2. https://askubuntu.com/questions/50145/how-to-install-perf-monitoring-tool
3. https://ubuntu-mate.community/t/howto-install-perf-on-ubuntu-mate16-04-rpi3-model-b/15572
4. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/20390601/is-there-a-way-to-set-kptr-restrict-to-0
5. https://packages.ubuntu.com/xenial-updates/amd64/linux-tools-4.4.0-131-generic/download
6. https://github.com/brendangregg/perf-tools












